.\" Converted with mdoc2man 0.2
.\" from NiH: NeoPop-SDL.mdoc,v 1.5 2003/10/17 23:02:05 wiz Exp 
.\" $NiH: NeoPop-SDL.mdoc,v 1.5 2003/10/17 23:02:05 wiz Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Thomas Klausner.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"    disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"    with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
.\"    products derived from this software without specific prior
.\"    written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THOMAS KLAUSNER ``AS IS'' AND ANY
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR
.\" CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
.\" OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH NEOPOP-SDL 1 "October 16, 2003" NiH
.SH "NAME"
NeoPop-SDL \- NeoGeo Pocket (Color) emulator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B NeoPop-SDL
[\fB-ceghjMmSsv\fR]
[\fB-f\fR \fBcount\fR]
[\fB-l\fR \fBstate\fR]
\fBfilename\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B NeoPop-SDL
is the SDL port of NeoPop, a portable NeoGeo Pocket emulator.
It supports black&white and color games, game state saving,
screenshots (BMP and PNG), sound and music, and double- and
triple-size as well as full-screen-modes.
.PP
The following options are supported:
.RS
.TP 12
\fB-c\fR
Start in colour mode (default: automatic).
See also
\fB-g\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-e\fR
Emulate English language NeoGeo Pocket (default).
See also
\fB-j\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-f\fR \fBcount\fR
Set frameskip to
\fBcount.\fR
The default frameskip is 1.
Frameskip 2 means that every second frame is shown, thus increasing
emulation speed since showing the graphics on screen is skipped
half of the time.
However, animation will be less smooth.
.TP 12
\fB-g\fR
Start in greyscale mode (default: automatic).
See also
\fB-c\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-h\fR
Show a short help message explaining the options.
.TP 12
\fB-j\fR
Emulate Japanese language NeoGeo Pocket.
Some ROMs will show Japanese text instead of English
if this option is chosen.
See also
\fB-e\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-l\fR \fBstate\fR
Load start emulator state from file
\fBstate.\fR
See the description for the
\fBF4\fR
key below.
.TP 12
\fB-M\fR
Do not use smoothed magnification modes.
See also
\fB-m\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-m\fR
Use smoothed magnification modes (default).
In double- and triple-size mode, the graphics will look less
blocky, but this option has quite a performance impact.
.TP 12
\fB-S\fR
Silent mode.
Sounds and music are not played.
See also
\fB-s\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-s\fR
Sounds and music are played (default).
See also
\fB-S\fR.
.TP 12
\fB-V\fR
Display the version number.
.RE
\fBfilename\fR
should obviously be a NeoGeo Pocket ROM file.
.SS "KEYS"
Currently, the keys are fixed.
The movement keys are:
\fBI\fR
for up,
\fBK\fR
for down,
\fBJ\fR
for left, and
\fBL\fR
for right.
.PP
The buttons are:
.RS
.TP 17
Button A
\fBA\fR
or
\fBSHIFT.\fR
.TP 17
Button B
\fBS\fR
or
\fBCTRL.\fR
.TP 17
Option button
\fBD\fR
or
\fBTAB.\fR
.RE
.PP
Other keys:
.PP
\fBM\fR
toggles music and sound effects during game.
.PP
\fB1,\fR
\fB2,\fR
and
\fB3\fR
set the magnication factor:
\fB1\fR
is normal (160x152),
\fB2\fR
is doubled in both directions, and
\fB3\fR
tripled.
Please note that bigger screens are slower to display,
even more so if smooth magnification is enabled (see
\fB-m\fR
and
\fBB\fR
below).
.PP
\fBB\fR
toggles between blocky and smooth magnification (defaults
to smooth).
The algorithm used for smooth 2x magnification (without
blur) is AdvanceMAME Scale2x, the one used for 3x is homebrewn.
Smooth animation is slower than blocky.
.PP
\fBF\fR
switches between full-screen and windowed mode.
.PP
\fB\&+\fR
and
\fB\&=\fR
increase frameskip while
\fB\&-\fR
decreases frameskip.
The default frameskip is one, if the
\fB-f\fR
option was not used.
A frameskip of
\fBn\fR
means one in
\fBn\fR
frames is shown, thus speeding up emulation at the
cost of less smooth animation.
.PP
\fBF3\fR
loads and
\fBF4\fR
writes the current emulator state from/to
\fBfilename.ngs\fR
in the current directory.
The emulator state
\fBfilename.ngs\fR
contains all the necessary information to continue
emulation at the exact same place at some later
time (i.e., when it is loaded again via
\fBF3\fR
or the
\fB-l\fR
command line flag.)
.PP
\fBF12\fR
saves a screenshot in the current directory.
The name of the output file is
``\fIneopop-ROMNAMEXXX.ext,\fR''
where
\fBROMNAME\fR
is the internal name of the rom and
\fBXXX\fR
is the number of the screenshot starting from 0; special
care is taken not to overwrite existing screenshots.
If the PNG library was found during compilation, screenshots are saved
as PNGs, otherwise as BMPs.
.PP
\fBESC\fR
quits the emulator.
.SH "AUTHORS"
neopop_uk
<neopop_uk@yahoo.co.uk>
wrote the original NeoPop emulator
using
Marat FayzullinNo 's
z80 core.
Thomas Klausner
<wiz@danbala.tuwien.ac.at>
ported it to SDL.
.SH "BUGS"
Please see the
\fITODO\fR
and
\fIbugs-core.html\fR
files.
