.TH "NEOPOPRC" "5" "July 24, 2004" "NiH" "File Formats Manual"
.nh
.if n .ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBneopoprc\fR
\- NeoPop-SDL config file
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
\fBneopoprc\fR
file contains the configuration of
NeoPop-SDL(6).
.PP
Lines starting with a hash mark
(\(oq#\(cq)
are ignored.
All keywords and values (except for paths) are case-insensitive.
Command-line options override config file settings.
.PP
The configuration values can be of the following types:
.RS 6n
.PD 0
.TP 12n
boolean
Logical value, can be one of
\(lqon\(rq,
\(lqoff\(rq,
\(lqyes\(rq,
\(lqno\(rq,
\(lq0\(rq,
and
\(lq1\(rq.
.TP 12n
enum
A value chosen from a limited set (described next to the
option).
.TP 12n
int
An integer.
.TP 12n
string
A string.
.RE
.PD
.PP
The following keywords are understood:
.RS 6n
.TP 17n
colour
[enum]
Whether to emulate a colour NeoGeo Pocket.
The following values are understood:
.RS 23n
.PD 0
.TP 14n
\fRgreyscale\fR
Emulate greyscale device.
.TP 14n
\fRcolour\fR
Emulate colour device.
.TP 14n
\fRauto\fR
Determine device type to emulate from ROM.
.RE
.RS 17n
Defaults to
\fRauto\fR.
.RE
.PD
.TP 17n
\fRcomms-mode\fR
[enum]
Describes the role
NeoPop-SDL(6)
should play with regard to network play:
.RS 23n
.PD 0
.TP 11n
\fRnone\fR
Disable network play.
.TP 11n
\fRserver\fR
Have client connect to us (start first).
.TP 11n
\fRclient\fR
Connect to server.
.RE
.RS 17n
Defaults to
\fRnone\fR.
.RE
.PD
.TP 17n
\fRcomms-port\fR
[int]
Which TCP port to use for network play.
Defaults to 7846.
.TP 17n
\fRcomms-remote\fR
[string]
Hostname of the server for network play.
Has no default.
.TP 17n
\fRflash-dir\fR
[string]
Path to the directory where Flash RAM images should be saved.
Defaults to
\(lq\fI~/.neopop/flash\fR\(rq.
If the directory does not exist, it is created automatically.
.TP 17n
\fRframeskip\fR
[int (1..7)]
Show only every Nth frame.
Defaults to 1 (display every frame).
.TP 17n
\fRfullscreen\fR
[boolean]
Start in fullscreen mode.
Defaults to
\fRoff\fR.
.TP 17n
\fRlanguage\fR
[enum]
Which language the hardware should claim it supports.
Possible values:
.RS 23n
.PD 0
.TP 13n
\fRenglish\fR
.TP 13n
\fRjapanese\fR
.RE
.RS 17n
Defaults to
\fRenglish\fR.
.RE
.PD
.TP 17n
\fRmagnify\fR
[int (1..3)]
Magnification factor for the graphics display.
Defaults to 1 (no magnification).
Not used in YUV fullscreen mode.
.TP 17n
\fRmap\fR
Assign a
NeoPop-SDL(6)
event to a key.
For details, please see the
\fIBINDINGS\fR
section below.
.TP 17n
\fRosd-colour\fR
[string]
Colour to use for on-screen display, in RGB with either one or two hex
digits per colour component.
Default is white (fff).
.TP 17n
\fRsamplerate\fR
[int]
Sample rate at which to play audio.
Defaults to 44100.
.TP 17n
\fRscreenshot-dir\fR
[string]
Path to directory in which to store screenshots.
Defaults to
\(lq\fI\&.\fR\(rq.
If the directory does not exist, it is created automatically.
.TP 17n
\fRsmooth\fR
[boolean]
Smooth display when magnified.
Defaults to
\fRon\fR.
Ignored in YUV overlay mode.
.TP 17n
\fRstate-dir\fR
[string]
Path to directory in which to store save states.
Defaults to
\(lq\fI~/.neopop/state\fR\(rq.
If the directory does not exist, it is created automatically.
.TP 17n
\fRsound\fR
[boolean]
Whether to play sound.
Defaults to
\fRon\fR.
.TP 17n
\fRuse-rom-name\fR
[boolean]
Whether to derive Flash RAM and save state file names from the
name in the ROM header rather than the ROM file name.
Defaults to
\fRoff\fR.
.TP 17n
\fRyuv\fR
[enum]
Use a YUV overlay for display.
On some machines, this allows hardware accelerated scaling.
Possible values:
.RS 23n
.PD 0
.TP 15n
\fRnever\fR
Don't use a YUV overlay.
.TP 15n
\fRfullscreen\fR
Only use a YUV overlay when in fullscreen mode.
.TP 15n
\fRmagnified\fR
Use a YUV overlay when in fullscreen mode or when
the magnification factor is greater than 1.
.TP 15n
\fRalways\fR
Always use a YUV overlay.
.RE
.RS 17n
Defaults to
\fRmagnified\fR.
.RE
.PD
.TP 17n
\fRyuv-software\fR
[boolean]
Use a YUV overlay even if scaling is not hardware accelerated.
Defaults to
\fRoff\fR.
.RE
.SH "BINDINGS"
The
\fRmap\fR
keyword can be used to set key bindings.
The following actions can be bound:
.RS 6n
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRnone\fR
No action.
Can be used to remove a key binding.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRjoy up\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRjoy down\fR
.TP 2n
\fRjoy left\fR
.TP 2n
\fRjoy right\fR
.TP 2n
\fRjoy button a\fR
.TP 2n
\fRjoy button b\fR
.TP 2n
\fRjoy option\fR
NeoGeo Pocket Gamepad.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRgui frameskip decrement\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRgui frameskip increment\fR
Decrease/increase frameskip.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRgui fullscreen off\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRgui fullscreen on\fR
.TP 2n
\fRgui fullscreen toggle\fR
Turn fullscreen mode off, on, or toggle it.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRgui magnify 1\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRgui magnify 2\fR
.TP 2n
\fRgui magnify 3\fR
Set graphics magnification factor.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRgui mute off\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRgui mute on\fR
.TP 2n
\fRgui mute toggle\fR
Turn sound and music on, off, or toggle it.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRgui pause off\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRgui pause on\fR
.TP 2n
\fRgui pause toggle\fR
Pause or unpause game.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRgui quit\fR
Exit the emulator.
.TP 2n
\fRgui screenshot\fR
Make a screenshot.
.TP 2n
\fRgui smooth off\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRgui smooth on\fR
.TP 2n
\fRgui smooth toggle\fR
Choose whether to use a smoothing filter.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRgui state load\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRgui state save\fR
Load or save a game state.
.PD
.TP 2n
\fRgui state slot decrement\fR
.PD 0
.TP 2n
\fRgui state slot increment\fR
Decrease or increase the current game state slot.
Goes from 0 to 9 and then wraps around to 0 again.
.RE
.PD
.PP
The key events use the names from the SDL library;
see
SDLKey(3)
for details.
Additionally,
\fRC-\fR
can be prepended for the control key, and
\fRA-\fR
or
\fRM-\fR
for the alt key.
See also the
\fIEXAMPLES\fR
section below.
.PP
The following joystick events are known:
.RS 6n
.PD 0
.TP 5n
\fRjoy\fR \fIm\fR \fRaxis\fR \fIn\fR \fIneg|pos\fR
On joystick
\fIm\fR
axis
\fIn\fR
the negative or positive direction.
.TP 5n
\fRjoy\fR \fIm\fR \fRbutton\fR \fIn\fR
Button
\fIn\fR
on joystick
\fIm\fR.
.TP 5n
\fRjoy\fR \fIm\fR \fRhat\fR \fIn\fR \fIup|left|down|right\fR
On joystick
\fIm\fR
hat
\fIn\fR
direction up, left, down, or right.
.RE
.PD
.SH "FILES"
\fI~/.neopop/neopoprc\fR
Location of the config file.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
To exit the emulator with
\fBALT-F4\fR,
add the following line to your
\fI~/.neopop/neopoprc\fR:
.RS 6n
map A-F4 = gui quit
.RE
.PP
To simulate a NeoGeo Pocket option key with
button 5 on the second joystick use:
.RS 6n
map joy 2 button 5 = joy option
.RE
.PP
To save all game states and flash saves in subdirectories
of
\fI~/.neopop\fR:
.RS 6n
flash-dir ~/.neopop/flash
.RE
.RS 6n
state-dir ~/.neopop/states
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
NeoPop-SDL(6)
.PP
\fBhttp://www.nih.at/NeoPop-SDL/\fR
