.TH "NEOPOP-SDL" "6" "July 25, 2004" "NiH" "Games Manual"
.nh
.if n .ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBNeoPop-SDL\fR
\- NeoGeo Pocket (Color) emulator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 11n
\fBNeoPop-SDL\fR
[\fB\-ceghjMmSsv\fR]
[\fB\-C\fR\ \fImode\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR\ \fIcount\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR\ \fIstate\fR]
[\fB\-P\fR\ \fIport\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR\ \fIhost\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR\ \fImode\fR]
\fIfilename\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBNeoPop-SDL\fR
is the SDL port of NeoPop, a portable NeoGeo Pocket emulator.
It supports black&white and color games, game state saving,
screenshots (BMP and PNG), sound and music, double- and
triple-size scaling (both in software and hardware),
full-screen-mode, joysticks and keyboard input, and the ability
to read from ZIP files.
.PP
All options can be specified in the config file,
neopoprc(5),
or on the command line.
Command-line options override config file settings.
.PP
The following options are supported:
.TP 12n
\fB\-C\fR \fImode\fR
Describes the role
\fBNeoPop-SDL\fR
should play with regard to network play:
.RS 18n
.PD 0
.TP 11n
\fRnone\fR
Disable network play.
.TP 11n
\fRserver\fR
Have client connect to us (start first).
.TP 11n
\fRclient\fR
Connect to server.
.RE
.RS 12n
Defaults to
\fRnone\fR.
.RE
.PD
.TP 12n
\fB\-c\fR
Start in colour mode (default: automatic).
See also
\fB\-g\fR.
.TP 12n
\fB\-e\fR
Emulate an English language NeoGeo Pocket (default).
See also
\fB\-j\fR.
.TP 12n
\fB\-f\fR \fIcount\fR
Set frameskip to
\fIcount\fR.
The default frameskip is 1.
Frameskip 2 means that every second frame is shown, thus increasing
emulation speed since showing the graphics on screen is skipped
half of the time.
However, animation will be less smooth.
.TP 12n
\fB\-g\fR
Start in greyscale mode (default: automatic).
See also
\fB\-c\fR.
.TP 12n
\fB\-h\fR
Show a short help message explaining the options.
.TP 12n
\fB\-j\fR
Emulate a Japanese language NeoGeo Pocket.
Some ROMs will show Japanese text instead of English
if this option is chosen.
See also
\fB\-e\fR.
.TP 12n
\fB\-l\fR \fIstate\fR
Load start emulator state from file
\fIstate\fR.
See the description for the
\fBF4\fR
key below.
.TP 12n
\fB\-M\fR
Do not use smoothed magnification modes.
See also
\fB\-m\fR.
.TP 12n
\fB\-m\fR
Use smoothed magnification modes (default).
In double- and triple-size mode, the graphics will look less
blocky, but this option has quite a performance impact.
.TP 12n
\fB\-P\fR \fIport\fR
Which TCP port to use for network play.
Defaults to 7846.
.TP 12n
\fB\-R\fR \fIhost\fR
Hostname of the server for network play.
.TP 12n
\fB\-S\fR
Silent mode.
Sounds and music are not played.
See also
\fB\-s\fR.
.TP 12n
\fB\-s\fR
Sounds and music are played (default).
See also
\fB\-S\fR.
.TP 12n
\fB\-V\fR
Display the version number.
.TP 12n
\fB\-y\fR \fImode\fR
Specify when to use YUV overlay, can be one of
\fRnever\fR, \fRfullscreen\fR, \fRmagnified\fR,
or
\fRalways\fR.
Default is
\fRmagnified\fR.
Using YUV overlay allows hardware accelerated scaling on most newer
graphics cards.
.PD 0
.PP
\fIfilename\fR
should obviously be a NeoGeo Pocket ROM file, unzipped or zipped.
.PD
.SS "KEYS"
The keys can be specified in the config file,
neopoprc(5).
The following are the default keys.
.PP
For movement, use either the cursor keys or
\fBI\fR
for up,
\fBK\fR
for down,
\fBJ\fR
for left, and
\fBL\fR
for right.
.PP
The buttons are:
.TP 17n
Button A
\fBA\fR
or
\fBSHIFT\fR.
.TP 17n
Button B
\fBS\fR
or
\fBCTRL\fR.
.TP 17n
Option button
\fBD\fR
or
\fBTAB\fR.
.PP
Other keys:
.PP
\fBM\fR
toggles music and sound effects during game.
.PP
\fB1\fR,
\fB2\fR,
and
\fB3\fR
set the magnication factor:
\fB1\fR
is normal (160x152),
\fB2\fR
is doubled in both directions, and
\fB3\fR
tripled.
Please note that bigger screens are slower to display
(except if hardware scaling is enabled),
even more so if smooth magnification is enabled (see
\fB\-m\fR
and
\fBB\fR
below).
Magnification is ignored in YUV fullscreen mode.
.PP
\fBB\fR
toggles between blocky and smooth magnification (defaults
to smooth).
The algorithm used for smooth 2x magnification is hq2x,
the one used for 3x magification is hq3x.
Smooth animation is definitely slower than blocky.
.PP
\fBF\fR
switches between full-screen and windowed mode.
.PP
\fB\&+\fR
and
\fB\&=\fR
increase frameskip while
\fB\&-\fR
decreases frameskip.
The default frameskip is one, if the
\fB\-f\fR
option was not used.
A frameskip of
\fIn\fR
means one in
\fIn\fR
frames is shown, thus speeding up emulation at the
cost of less smooth animation.
.PP
\fBF3\fR
loads and
\fBF4\fR
writes the current emulator state from/to
\fIfilename.ngs\fR
(or
\fIfilename.ngX\fR
with
\fIX\fR
from 0 to 9 for the numbered save slots)
in the directory configured in
neopoprc(5)
(defaults to
\(lq\fI\&.neopop/flash\fR\(rq).
The emulator state
contains all the necessary information to continue
emulation at the exact same place at some later
time (i.e., when it is loaded again via
\fBF3\fR
or the
\fB\-l\fR
command line flag.)
\fIfilename\fR
depends on the
\fRuse-rom-name\fR
setting in
neopoprc(5).
.PP
\fBF12\fR
saves a screenshot in the directory configured in
neopoprc(5)
(defaults to
\(lq\fI\&.\fR\(rq).
The name of the output file is
\(lq\fIfilenameXXX.ext\fR\(rq,
where
\fIXXX\fR
is the number of the screenshot starting from 0; special
care is taken not to overwrite existing screenshots.
If the PNG library was found during compilation, screenshots are saved
as PNGs, otherwise as BMPs.
The screenshot is always in the original screen size.
\fIfilename\fR
depends on the
\fRuse-rom-name\fR
setting in
neopoprc(5).
.PP
\fBESC\fR
quits the emulator.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
neopoprc(5)
.PP
\fBhttp://www.nih.at/NeoPop-SDL/\fR
.SH "AUTHORS"
neopop_uk
<neopop_uk@yahoo.co.uk>
wrote the original NeoPop emulator.
.br
Thomas Klausner
<wiz@danbala.tuwien.ac.at>
ported it to SDL.
.br
Dieter Baron
<dillo@danbala.tuwien.ac.at>
made lots of improvements.
.br
Marat Fayzullin
provided the z80 core for sound.
.br
Gilles Vollant
provided simple portable unzip code.
.br
Maxim Stepin
and
.br
Max Horn
provided the HQx scaling routines.
.SH "BUGS"
Network play does not work.
.PP
Also, please see the
\fIDOCDIR/bugs-core.html\fR
and
\fIDOCDIR/TODO\fR
files.
